# Aim: All about database

`Relational Database`
DB that stores info as a collection of tables

FIELD: Column data in a RDB
RECORD: Row in a RDB

Data can be linked between tables based on field values.

`SQL (Structured Query Language)`

Standard language designed to work with relational databases.

used for many major db programs, though implementations may not
(most are not) be compatible.

eg.
MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Oracle, IBM DB2, Sybase, M$ Access

    `SQLite`
    SQL implementation that relies entirely on function calls in the
    parent program. (no database server)

    All db info stored in a single file.
    Data is dynamically typed as values are inserted into a table.

        Basic Operations
        *CREATE TABLE*
            Add a table to the database
            e.g
            CREATE TABLE <name> (<column name> <data type>, ...)
            data type will help to convert entered values to a suggested type

            data types: TEXT, INTEGER, REAL, NUMERIC, BLOB

            Columns can be given a PRIMARY KEY atribute, denoting that every
            entry in that column is unique and cannot be NULL.

            Columns can be given a NOT NULL attribute, denoting that no entry
            can be NULL.
        *INSERT INTO*
            Insert a record into a table
            INSERT INTO <tbl_name> VALUES (<field 1>, <field 2>)

            Will add a record to a table matching the values to the
            columns in order; NULL can e used in any entry
        CREATE TABLE tpotusa(name TEXT, id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY);
        INSERT INTO tpotusa VALUES ("George Washington", 1);
